Lesson 1 Reeflection 2.15.16

Udacity / How to Use Git and GitHub

1) How did viewing a diff between two versions of a file help you spot the bug?

It was helpful because I can isolate where the bug is coming from in a short amount of time rather than analyzing the entire code.

2) How could having easy access to the entire history of a file make you a more efficient programmer in the long term?

If you make a mistake and need to go back to a working copy of you can easily go back to a prior version without having to redo your work.

3) As a programmer, when would you want to have a version of your code saved?

You would want to save at regular intervals, whenever a large enough change is made, whenever there is a long pause in editing, and when you choose to save a version.  (All of the above).  In addition, always before running your code, or when you complete a section of your code.

4) What do you think are the pros and cons of manually choosing when to create a commit, like you do in Git, vs having versions automatically saved, like Google Docs does?

Automatic saves may not save at the right time and the code may not be useful at that save point.  It is better to save at controlled logical save points.

Relect: Multi-File Commits

Why do you think some version control systems, like Git, allow saving multiple files in one commit, while others, like Google Docs, treat each file separately?

Because these systems are designed to work better with saving changes in code since usually changes can span multiple related files.

How can you use the commands git log and git diff to view the history of files?

Git log shows you the commit ids for a file which you can tehn use to determine the changes made to a file using git diff.

How might using version control make you more confident to make changes that could break something?

If you make a mistake, you can easily trace the exact spot where the mistake was made and revert back to the working copy.


Now that you have your workspace set up, what do you want to try using Git for?

For everything!! (Maybe for the reflections notes)